Welcome to MEGABOT!


PRE-ALPHA PREFACE

There are pieces of interesting stuff here, but no game to play yet.
I'll get around to it.  I hope.  :^)


ABOUT

Obviously, this is an entirely-original, not-inspired-by-anything-else
game which bears no resemblance to any copyrighted works whatsoever.

Yes, Megabot is an homage to / rip-off of Capcom's numerous Megaman games.
Its raison d'etre is to enable the user to easily craft his/her own take
on that well-known and well-loved theme.  Everything is laid out in simple
.png graphics and .json config files, from map layout to enemy and weapon
behaviour.


FREQUENTLY PRE-ANSWERED QUESTIONS

Q: I've made my own game pack, will you include it in Megabot?
A: Probably yes!  Just don't get me into legal trouble.

Q: I've made most of my own game pack but can't finish, will you take it?
A: Probably yes.  I may not finish it, but I'll stick it in the source and
   maybe someone else will.

Q: I need a wacky new feature for my game pack.  Will you write it?
A: Maybe.  I'd prefer a working patch, but I'm always open to good ideas.

Q: I want slide and charge beam!
A: Submit a patch, I'll apply it.  Those would be great options for making
   a custom Megabot pack.

Q: Why no XML support?
A: Submit a patch I guess, but I'm sticking with JSON for my stuff.

Q: Megaman didn't use Tango colors, and ran at 256x240 NES resolution!
A: Well, this is Megabot.  Feel free to turn it into a faithful clone if
   you like.  That wasn't my goal.  I like Tango colors, square pixels and
   4x3 shape for this kind of game.  Make your game any way you want.  :^)

Q: Why no WebOS/Android/iPhone/iFad version?
A: This type of game doesn't work with touch/swipe/tilt controls.  It
   barely works with keys.  It wants a sideways Wiimote or a USB gamepad.
Q: But you could-
A: No.


COMMENTARY  (spoilers!)

Megabot is an idea I'd been kicking around for a long time, and I had a
number of possible boss sets lined up.  I was going to go with a computer-
themed boss collection (RAMbot, CPUbot, Keybot etc) and maybe I'll still
implement those sometime.  But I got busy with work and the rest of life
and never really got anywhere with the project.

A friend clued me in to an Aussie band called The Beards, who have several
albums' worth of songs about beards.  (Really!)  It's fun stuff, and one of
their tunes in particular often got stuck in my head.  For some reason, as
the tune repeated in my skull, it morphed into an 8-bit version of itself,
sounding just like something out of a Megaman game.  So, one night I
popped in KORG DS-10 and banged out what is now the Beardbot level theme.
I had the song, so I had to design a Beardbot.  Once I had him, I had to
come up with seven other bots whose weapons would rock-paper-scissor back
around to him.  I noticed that most of my bosses / weapons were strong
against the next ones in alphabetical order, so I decided to keep that
going as well.

Ever since Megaman 3, boss battles have been pretty rough.  I personally
liked how wimpy many of Megaman 2's bosses were, so I decided to make
Megabot a bit easy by the standards of the Megaman series.  I also have
much more fun going around fighting the bosses than I do with the Dr. Wily
stages, so I've sort of de-emphasized the later parts of the game.

I hate the vanishing-block sections of every single Megaman game.  I can
do Heatman's level, but I always use Item-2 instead.  The other games, I
always use Rush Jet or whatever.  I've included vanishing-block mechanics
but tried to keep them fair.  Speaking of Items and Rush, I always thought
it would be cool to have regular weapons be useful for navigation, so
instead of explicit platform items, we have the Crumb and Tar (thanks
Concreteman!) weapons.
